No'rns. Ι 211

17. 7,. (ligius audio . . . . est.- “tobewithdrawn‚
by our zeal for this, from the necessary occupatione
of life, is in opposition to 'dutyss’ When Syracuse
was taken„ the philosopher Archimedes was so en-
gaged in solving a problem, that he was ,even igno·
rant that the soldiers were in possession of the town: ’
in consequence of this he lost his life.

17. 11. Tum agitatio . . . . contineic: “then our
mental activity, which never reste, can supply ue,
without our exertion‚ with subjecte for contempl&
tion.”

Sne. VII. J ustice and liberality, two parts of the
second general virtue which eonsists in the mainte-
nance of human society.

18. 1, Pro communibus,- that is, not as his an
property exclusively. .

18. 3. In vacua .- “ into uninhabited countries.” ,, ,

18. ,5. Avpinas, Tusculanus. Cicero was born at
Arpinum, and had a magnificent villa at Tusculum3
he mentions these places because they were, most
familiar to his son. ,

19. 2. Infirunt3 sc. injuriam. · *⁸

19. 13. Maximam partem3 sc. quod attinet ad. i
The sentence is essiptical, and may be rendered “men
in general.'’ ’ ⁴

12514. Ut* . . . . concupiverunt. Livy says thatun
inortssiate love of power induced Tullia, the daugh-
ter of Servius Tullius, to murder her husband. The
same motivo induced Tarquinius Superbus to murder
both his wife and father-in-law.

